>> Mike North: The next thing we're going
to talk about is a little five-minute
description of type systems.
And how you can tell the difference and
take advantage
of the difference between something
like TypeScript and something like Java.
So, type systems come down to this
question of type equivalents.
And that is the same thing we were looking
at when we saw some error messages
that related to the left-hand and
the right-hand of an assignment, right?
That's TypeScript trying to figure
out is this value you're trying to
assign equivalent to this type of
the variable you're assigning it to.
And the same thing happens when you're
trying to pass an argument to a function.
Just think of it like an object
trying to pass through a hole.
You want the square peg passing
through a square hole as appropriate.
So really, it's about can we
regard x as an HTMLInputElement?
Nominal type systems, like Java and
almost every typed language out there,
they would answer the question
based on whether x is an instance
of a class named whatever
the type you're looking for.
So this would require you to have
all of your code set up in a fairly
object-oriented way where
you have constructors.
And you're dealing primarily
with instances of classes and
you're passing things around.
This isn't necessarily how
JavaScript code is written.
And this would require us to do a lot of
rewriting and to make almost everything
a class and an instance in order to
have factories with specific names.
So that we could take advantage of types.
>> Mike North: TypeScript is
a structural type system,
they only care about
the shape of an object.
Which is property names and types that
are allowed for those properties, right?
So it only cares about
the structure of an object.
So, if we had like a data structure for
a car, we could call it car.
But really, all we care about is the fact
that it has properties called make,
model and
year that are of the appropriate types.
Same goes for functions.
We really only care about
the arguments and the return type.
And if you create a totally different
function that meets those criteria,
that will end up being type equivalent.
That will be usable where you
need that type to be used.
And I should point out that this is
an important concept to understand in
TypeScript.
But also if you have consistent
shapes in JavaScript.
And you avoid introducing new properties
to objects that have been heavily used.
You end up having a better
shot at JavaScript run times,
like V8 optimizing your code.
>> Mike North: TypeScript
uses the term wider and
narrower to describe
a level of specificity.
And you'll no doubt come across
someone who uses wider, narrower, and
I'm gonna start using these terms today.
But here is the diagram to help you
understand what we mean by this.
The widest type is any and
it allows for any possible value.
And just think of it as the set of allowed
values for any is infinitely wide.
It can just take absolutely anything,
it’s almost infinity.
Now, if I said, I want an array,
any array at all.
I don't care what type of
value is in this array,
that would be a narrower type, right?
We're not infinitely wide anymore.
The set of values,
if you line them up end to end,
it would be narrower,
still pretty wide though.
And we could get even more specific and
say this array can be of arbitrary length,
but it must only contain strings.
And then you could say, but
it must be of length three.
But those strings can be anything at all.
And then we could get narrower still
by being very specific about what
certain strings these values might be.
Now if we had a function that
could operate on any array.
We could look at the array type,
and anything below it,
anything narrower than that will be
fine to use, it's just more specific.
We can always regard an array of three
strings that must remain of size three.
We can always regard that as
an arbitrary array of strings, or
as an array of anything,
or as any value, right?
So narrower values can always
fit through the wider hole.
That's the way I kind of think of this.
But if you wanted to have
specifically an array of strings,
and you had an array of any, you'd have
to find a way to narrow that type.
And to validate that only
the correct thing fits through.
So this is what we mean by wider and
narrower.
Wide is very general,
narrow is extremely specific.
We run into this never type when we were
initializing an array with an empty array.
Never is infinitely narrow,
it literally can hold no value.
I mean, it can hold a never, but
it is like circular reasoning, right?
You think of it like there is no hole,
nothing can really pass through.
It is nothing and impossible, or
unreachable, think of it that way